Marriage.com - Building World's Largest Marriage Resource
Getting Married  Married Life  Counseling & Help  Courses  Quizzes  Find a Therapist
Search
Search articles..
Home   ›   Marriage Advice   ›   Married Life   ›   Relationship Advice & Tips
20 Simple Ways to Win a Woman’s Heart
Sylvia Smith
By Sylvia Smith, Expert Blogger
6.1k ReadsUpdated: 4 Mar, 2022
Share on FacebookShare on TwitterShare on PintrestShare on Whatsapp
Women shocked
Knowing how to win a woman’s heart is one skill you should spend some time developing and harnessing. This is because to win over the love of your life, you must know the way to a woman’s heart, know the things to say to win her heart, and master how to win a girl over with words.  Also, to win a woman’s heart, you have to be willing and ready to be patient with her. Women love to be courted and wooed, and this is why patience is an important skill you must arm yourself with as well. In this article, we will show you how to win a woman’s heart and get her prepared to move into a committed relationship with you. 

How to get close to a girl you like 
Women teen smiling 

As a pretty young lady, you may have seen this scenario play out before you multiple times.

You walk into a place (like a club or a restaurant) with a group of your friends, all of you looking ravishing in your dresses and makeup. A few feet away from you, you may notice a group of guys looking in your direction. 

You examine them from the corner of your eyes, and you can tell for sure that there’s one guy in that group who wants to get up from where he’s seated, take a few steps over to you, and strike up a conversation. 

He likes you, but he isn’t sure how to get close to you. 

Or, you may even be the one who likes a girl but you don’t know how to get close to her. If you have ever been in this situation, here’s how to win her love by getting close to her first. 

Related Reading: How to Get a Girl’s Attention and Make Her Want You
1. Walk over to her 
This is a no-brainer, but it remains one of the most powerful ways to get close to the girl you like. When you spot a girl, you would want to pursue something with, walk over to her and start a  conversation. This can seem daunting, but don’t sweat it. The first step to winning her heart is by being close enough to her. 

2. Lead the conversation with a genuine compliment 
Women love to be appreciated and receive compliments from men. However, a study suggests that women tend to be drawn to men (or people) who have mastered the use of metaphorical language when giving them compliments about their appearance, as opposed to those who use prosaic (or straightforward) language to do so.With this in perspective, it is important to note that how you pass your compliments across is as important as the message you want to communicate. For the best results, steer clear from giving compliments that may be considered as being “too personal for a start.” 

Remember, the goal is to break the ice.   

3. Request to see her again 
Since your ultimate goal is to get close so that you can figure out how to win the heart of a woman, request to see her again. 

Whether or not she accepts your invitation will be dependent on several factors like the 1st impression you made and whether she is into you or not. Regardless, if you want to win your dream girl, don’t be afraid to request to see her again. You can easily say, “this was fun. Can we do this again, sometime soon?”

What can I say to win a woman’s heart? 
Cheerful couple

Inasmuch as we have hinted that women love to be complimented, you must know the types of compliments to use if you don’t want to be interpreted as pervy, annoying, or simply unbearable. 

Do you want to know how to win a woman’s heart? Master the art of saying the right things. Here are some of them. 

1. Use genuine but impersonal compliments 
A woman can see when you are just tossing a trailer load of nonsense on her in the name of complimenting her. The magic of the words to win a woman’s heart lies in honesty. Does her makeup look perfect to you? You may want to talk about that. 

Related Reading: How to Compliment a Girl- 15+ Best Compliments for Girls

Related Reading: How to Compliment a Girl- 15+ Best Compliments for Girls
2. You are beautiful 
For one, the “beautiful” word is wholesome, can be interpreted in many ways, and almost doesn’t feel so intrusive. So, if you love the idea of communicating to her that she is a work of art, why not start by telling her that she is beautiful? 

3. Thank her
This seems obvious, and that is where the problem begins. Sometimes, people feel entitled to attention from a woman that they forget to appreciate her when she goes out of her way to make things work for them. 

However, if you are the guy that appreciates a lady when she does things for you, she may start liking you. 

20 simple ways to win a woman’s heart 
This is how to win a girl’s heart and even keep it to yourself for a long time to come.  

1. Genuinely appreciate her 
We already mentioned earlier that ladies are given the gift of seeing through a trailer-load of bullshit. This is why if you want to walk down the aisle of appreciation, you have to be genuine about it. 

When you appreciate a lady for doing something for you, you prime her to be more favorably disposed toward you. She would want to do more. 

2. Look good 
You may have heard before that you are addressed the way you dress. However, you may not have heard how seriously ladies take these words. A recent survey by a prominent shoe brand in America revealed that about 64% of women report that they judge a man’s fashion sense by his shoes, and 54% admit that they believe that a guy’s shoes reveal a lot about his attention to detail or lack of it. 

One of the ways to win a woman’s heart is to pay attention to what you look like. Interestingly, you do not have to break the bank or be a fashion icon. Just ensure that you are decent enough and you look like a guy she would want to be seen in public with. 

Related Reading: How Much Do Looks Matter in a Relationship?
3. Oh, and smell good 
On your way to figuring out how to win a woman’s heart, ensure you smell good as well. One of the biggest turnoffs for women is when they get close to a guy they are into, only to discover that he smells terrible. 

Do whatever you can to ensure that she won’t recoil when you get close to her or open your mouth to speak to her. 

4. Give her your attention 
Now this is a double-edged sword because you don’t want to smother a girl with affection and attention when that isn’t her primary love language. However, it is still safe to say that you need to give her attention if you want her to fall head over heels for you.  

When giving attention, it is important to note that she (most likely) wants someone to listen to her, not someone who would always interject with stories of how awesome he is. 

5. As a rule of thumb, never double text her 
Nothing screams clingy like shooting a couple of texts to a girl in quick succession without hearing from her as well. To get a lady to fall for you, ensure that you aren’t giving off the vibes that you are too clingy.  

Related Reading: What Is Double Texting and Its 10 Pros and Cons
6. Make her feel special 
When you learn how to make a girl feel special, you are already halfway close to making her fall for you. Then again, you may not need to be the richest person on earth to make a lady feel special. 

Anything you can do for her that she would interpret as thoughtful, kind, and sweet qualifies to fall under this category. 

For example, help her pick up some groceries the next time you go to the grocery store. Has she had a stressful day at work? Drive over to her place with a platter full of her favorite dishes. 

Related Reading: 30 Sweet Things to Say to Your Wife & Make Her Feel Special
7. Treat her like an equal 
As the world keeps evolving into the gender equality age, it is important to be reminded that today’s ladies do not always want to be seen as the damsels in distress who always need knights in shining armor to fly to the rescue every single time. 

Respect is one of the things that would make a girl fall hard for you. When you respect her, she feels safe within your space when you respect her and will open up to you as time proceeds. 

Related Reading: What Exactly is an Equal Relationship?
8. Touch her at the points that matter 
Physical touch is an important part of every relationship that thrives. Research has proven that strategic touch promotes affection in adult romantic relationships. To get a girl to fall for you, learn how, when, and where to touch her. 

Touch could be casually tucking some strands of her hair behind her ear when you’re in a deep conversation or placing your palm on the small of her back 9when the situation is right). 

Then again, physical touch doesn’t always have to be ‘sexual.’

9. Stay top of mind 
If she caught your attention, there’s every possibility that she caught the attention of some other people at the same time. One simple way to make her fall for you is by ensuring that you stay top of mind. 

To achieve this, reach out to her every once in a while. You can achieve this by sending her the occasional message, dropping her chats on social media, or even calling her. However, ensure that you aren’t too pushy when you do this. 

Related Reading: How to Get a Girl’s Attention and Make Her Want You
10. Be confident 
While it may be ‘cute’ to stutter out your words the first time you walk up to her for a conversation, you may want to make sure that you start communicating confidence as time goes on. Everyone loves a confident person, especially women. 

Just ensure that whatever you’re communicating to her isn’t misinterpreted as cockiness. 

How to talk to women without overthinking it? Watch this video. 


11. Remember to respect others when you are with her 
It is easy to put up being respectful when you are trying to win a girl over. However, if she catches you treating others like filth, she may start getting repulsed and may even think of you as being a hypocrite.

Respect should be a universal thing for you. 

12. Give her relevant gifts 
To achieve this, you must know the things she likes. When you know the things she likes, you can give her gifts she would think of as relevant. For example, she may not be thrilled if you give her a bunch of flowers when she would have preferred a new pair of work shoes. 

Know what makes her tick. 

Related Reading: Give her relevant gifts
13. Ask her to do things for you 
If you are already getting closer to her, this may be a good step to take. One key to a woman’s heart is by making her feel like she is important to you. This is one of the things you achieve when you ask her to do things for you. If you are going down this route, ensure that you ask for things within her power. Then again, see that you don’t make a habit of being on the receiving end because this can be a huge turn-off to women at the same time. 

Also Try: Ask her to do things for you
14. Get hands-on. Make her a gift 
There’s a difference between gifts that you buy and the ones you make. Although the ones you make may not be as perfect as those you can get in the market, they send the impression that you think she is worth that time and effort. That’s what you want her to believe, right? 

15. Send her handwritten letters 
This is still in line with the last point. While you can easily pick up your phone and send her a voice note on social media, handwritten letters have a way of sending your messages home easily, especially if you have beautiful handwriting. 

Take this opportunity to tell her about your feelings and encourage her to write you back as well. 

Related Reading: 170+ Sweet Love Letters to Her From the Heart
16. Give her a memorable time as much as possible 
Something as small as taking her to her favorite spot, taking her to eat at her favorite restaurant, or even getting her a memorable gift every once in a while can be instrumental toward making her fall in love with you. 

17. Ask her thoughts on the important matter in your life and take her advice 
Women love to feel that their opinions matter, and this is the impression you give when you ask for her advice. Try it out. Before firing that annoying staff or moving into a new apartment, talk to her about it and watch her light up. 

18. Have a great sense of humor 
This shows her that you have taught yourself how to have fun. While it is essential to be serious and goal-oriented, women also want to be with someone who understands the value of having fun and wouldn’t be bored when they finally commit to a relationship. 

Spend some time cultivating your sense of humor. 

19. Take her to your favorite places 
On your way to figuring out how to win a woman’s heart, opening her up to the things that matter to you would be a great option. So, you may want to consider taking her on a date at your favorite restaurant or even making her your favorite meal. 

Related Reading: 15 Awesome Ways to Create Memories with Your Partner
20. Come clean to her 
Women appreciate when they are with people who can be honest with them. This also includes being honest about your feelings. Do you love her ? Would you like to be in a relationship with her?

Choose the perfect time to have an honest conversation and let her in on what’s going on in your mind. This way, she can give you her answer, after which both of you can move in the most profitable direction.

Conclusion
Knowing how to win a woman’s heart is important for building romantic relationships that last. If you intend to get into a relationship with a woman, pay attention to these tips we have shared with you. 

If you use them right, you would eventually make her fall for you as well. 

References 
Share this article on
Share on FacebookShare on TwitterShare on PintrestShare on Whatsapp
Want to have a happier, healthier marriage?

If you feel disconnected or frustrated about the state of your marriage but want to avoid separation and/or divorce, the marriage.com course meant for married couples is an excellent resource to help you overcome the most challenging aspects of being married.

Take Course

Sylvia Smith
Sylvia Smith
Expert Blogger
Sylvia Smith loves to share insights on how couples can revitalize their love lives in and out of the bedroom. As a writer at Marriage.com, she is a big believer in living consciously and encourages couples to adopt this principle in their lives too. Sylvia believes that every couple can transform their relationship into a happier, healthier one by taking purposeful and wholehearted action.
More On This Topic
Spice up Your Day With Cute Relationship Memes for Your Partner
Relationship
Spice up Your Day With Cute Relationship Memes for Your PartnerBy Sylvia Smith
100 Sexy Texts for Her to Drive Her Wild
Relationship
100 Sexy Texts for Her to Drive Her WildBy Sylvia Smith
The Importance Of Maintaining Healthy Family Relationships
Relationship
The Importance Of Maintaining Healthy Family RelationshipsApproved By Milica Markovic, Psychologist Coach MA
35 Relationship Goals for Couples & Tips to Achieve Them
Relationship
35 Relationship Goals for Couples & Tips to Achieve ThemBy Sylvia Smith
What is Marriage?
Relationship
What is Marriage?Approved By Angela Welch, Marriage & Family Therapist
25 Common Marriage Problems Faced by Couples & Their Solutions
Relationship
25 Common Marriage Problems Faced by Couples & Their SolutionsApproved By Angela Welch, Marriage & Family Therapist
50+ Best Funny Marriage Advice: Finding Humor in Commitment
Relationship
50+ Best Funny Marriage Advice: Finding Humor in CommitmentBy Sylvia Smith
21 Key Secrets To A Successful Marriage
Relationship
21 Key Secrets To A Successful MarriageApproved By Angela Welch, Marriage & Family Therapist
Recent Articles
May-December Relationships: 15 Ways on How to Make Age-Gap Relationships Work
Relationship
May-December Relationships: 15 Ways on How to Make Age-Gap Relationships WorkBy Rachael Pace
15 Signs of Rejection in a Relationship and What to Do
Relationship
15 Signs of Rejection in a Relationship and What to DoBy Sylvia Smith
20 Insights in the Law of Polarity in Relationships
Relationship
20 Insights in the Law of Polarity in RelationshipsBy Rachael Pace
Capstones vs. Cornerstones: Is Marrying Later Always Better?
Relationship
Capstones vs. Cornerstones: Is Marrying Later Always Better?By Rachael Pace
5 Reasons Why Importance of Self-Love Is Crucial in a Relationship
Love
5 Reasons Why Importance of Self-Love Is Crucial in a RelationshipBy Rachael Pace
Top 10 Persistent Myths About Marriage
Marriage Fitness
Top 10 Persistent Myths About MarriageBy Sylvia Smith
What Is a Platonic Marriage and Is It Right for You?
Marriage Fitness
What Is a Platonic Marriage and Is It Right for You?By Sylvia Smith
Limerence vs. Love: What’s the Difference?
Love
Limerence vs. Love: What’s the Difference?By Sylvia Smith
Parentification: Causes, signs, effects and more
Parenting
Parentification: Causes, signs, effects and moreBy Sylvia Smith
5 Tips on Weekly Marriage Check in Guide
Romance
5 Tips on Weekly Marriage Check in GuideBy Sylvia Smith
5 Ways to Promote Oneness in Marriage
Love
5 Ways to Promote Oneness in MarriageBy Sylvia Smith
15 Marriage Goals for a Healthy and Lasting Relationship
Love
15 Marriage Goals for a Healthy and Lasting RelationshipBy Sylvia Smith
You May Also Like
What To Do When You Feel No Emotional Connection With Your Husband
Emotional Intimacy
What To Do When You Feel No Emotional Connection With Your HusbandApproved By Angela Welch, Marriage & Family Therapist
35 Fun and Romantic Games for Couples
Romance
35 Fun and Romantic Games for CouplesApproved By Angela Welch, Marriage & Family Therapist
What Is Love?
Love
What Is Love?Approved By Angela Welch, Marriage & Family Therapist
According to Zodiac Signs: the 3 Best Women to Marry
Zodiac Signs
According to Zodiac Signs: the 3 Best Women to MarryBy Sylvia Smith
How To Connect With A Man On An Emotional Level
Emotional Intimacy
How To Connect With A Man On An Emotional LevelBy Rachael Pace
The Role of Romance in a Relationship and its Importance
Romance
The Role of Romance in a Relationship and its ImportanceBy Kelli H, Licensed Clinical Social Worker
How Important Is Intimacy in a Relationship
Intimacy
How Important Is Intimacy in a RelationshipBy Sylvia Smith
Practical Tools to Grow your Love Bank
Love
Practical Tools to Grow your Love BankBy Kavitha Goldowitz, Marriage & Family Therapist
Popular Topics On Married Life
Love Intimacy Communication Finance Marriage Fitness Emotional Intimacy Romance Relationship Physical Intimacy Parenting Pregnancy Family Same Sex Marriage Zodiac Signs Gift Ideas Sexual Health
Trending
Feeling No Emotional Connection With Your Husband
200 Pet Names for Lovers
How to Leave a Marriage with Children
How to Get Back Together After Separation
20 Signs He Doesn’t Want to Marry You
6 Ways to Tell if Someone is Lying About Cheating
20 Qualities of a Good Wife
5 Signs That You Are Living in a Toxic Marriage
7 Important Tips to Build Trust in a Relationship
10 Effective Communication Skills for Healthy Marriages
100 Sexy Texts for Her to Drive Her Wild
20 Signs of a Married Man in Love With Another Woman
Resources
Find a Therapist
Marriage Advice
Marriage Quizzes
Marriage Quotes
Videos
Courses
Marriage Course
Save My Marriage Course
Pre Marriage Course
All Courses
For Therapists
Get Listed Write for Us
Subscribe to Our Newsletter

Enter Email
Email
About
Privacy
Press
Terms
Contact Us
Accessibility
Advertise with us
Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Pintrest
Sitemap| © Copyright 2022. All Rights Reserved.
